# JUNE 2 at 1200 UT : SuperDARN Workshop 2020

SuperDARN DSWG Workshop Meeting Agenda

Present: (23)

Marci Dewiller (Chair): MD  
Adrian Grocott: AG  
Alex Chartier (PI): AC  
Angeline Burrell: AB  
Aur√©lie Marchaudon (PI): AM  
Bill Bristow (PI): BB  
Emma Bland : EB  
Evan Thomas : ET  
Federica Marcucci (PI): FM  
Gareth Chisham (PI): GC  
Jianjun Liu: JL  
Jordan Wiker: JW  
Kathryn McWilliams (PI): KM  
Keith Kotyk: KKO  
Kevin Krieger: KKR  
Kevin Sterne: KS  
Maria-Theresia Walach: MW   
Marina Schmidt : MS  
Mark Lester (PI) : ML  
Nozomu Nishitani (PI): NN  
Simon Shepherd (PI): SS  
Xueling Shi: XS  
Wei Wanguo: WW  

## 1. Comments on Charter and Processes: Can be reviewed [here](https://github.com/SuperDARN/dswg-published-docs/tree/master)

 *- charter responsibilities: how might they interface with other WGs. Specifically, should CPIDs belong here? 
   (Evan Thomas/Emma Bland/Marci Detwiller)*

   MD: Open to removing CPIDs from the charter, they were placed there to include all SuperDARN-specific metadata under
   one group. ET has done considerable work on CPIDs under the Scheduling working group (SWG), and it may make sense to leave
   allocating to that WG since the SWG speaks directly with radar operators scheduling the radar. 

   ML: The Scheduling Working Group was originally tasked with identifying CPIDs and allocating CPIDs through APL. 

   KM: Is the role of the DSWG to control the content of the metadata? MD: Two sides, creation of metadata and distribution 
   of metadata. The content is defined by radar operators or the SWG, it may just be distribution and access that could 
   benefit from the DSWG standard issue processes.

   ET: I've been working on reviewing rawacf files from all the radars and creating lists of what CPIDs have actually been used 
   at each radar, under the SWG. It's been helping me get an idea of what CPIDs have been used historically to get an 
   idea of what can be allocated in the future. That process is taking some time but once that information is collected,
   the DSWG could take on the task of documenting the operating mode of each CPID. MD: We can discuss this anytime 
   you wish over the next year and come up with a plan for this responsibility.

   ET: would it be worth adding other SuperDARN-related data, like theses and dissertations, working group proceedings,
   tutorials, data that might not be technical or software-related? MD: think it's a great idea to place all documentation,
   including administrative data related to SuperDARN, in one place and we can discuss that further within the WG. ET: Have
   started doing some work around this by discussing with certain PIs but would like to see a greater effort put towards this.

   **NEXT STEPS: ET and MD to discuss moving CPID documentation under DSWG after ET completes database of current CPIDs used. 
   Separation of responsibilities to be clarified at that point.** 

 *- definition/standard of data product levels 1, 2, etc; these are referred to in the charter (Kevin Sterne/Aurelie Marchaudon)
   refer to [NASA data levels](https://earthdata.nasa.gov/collaborate/open-data-services-and-software/data-information-policy/data-levels)*

   KS: We could classify our data levels to make things more understandable for external users. The data levels are 
   mentioned in the DSWG charter but we don't define what they are and they are too abstracted from our current data formats. 
   Can we map the levels to iqdat, rawacf, etc. In the PI agreement it talks about the rawacf files being the ones distributed so 
   that one might be more clear as level 1. After that, what is secondary (fitacf2, fitacf3, lmfit, etc)? In addition to 
   that what are grid and map files?  
   MD: Would like to see this defined somewhere other than the charter to keep the charter future-proofed, and to allow multiple
   secondary formats to be defined.   
   KS: Would like to define these within this working group, could be done in a separate document. Would like to see a standard 
   that defines the algorithms necessary, options for the algorithm, etc., to achieve the format.   
   AB: There are a lot of value in tying our data levels to what the satellite community uses for data because their levels 
   are well understood and commonly used. Following this,   
   rawacf = level 1  
   map = level 4  
   grid = level 3  
   fitacf = level 2/2a depending on elevation angles - elevation angles give location information so would be 2a   
   ET: iqdat = level 0  
   FM: we can use the NASA levels and also we can compare with the spacecraft measurements as they set an example  
   MD: Within the WG we are currently looking at [issue #2](https://github.com/SuperDARN/dswg-published-docs/issues/2) that 
   documents our current formats like fitacf, etc. that are treated as standards but undocumented as such - this can be 
   addressed there and we can ensure all data standards are mapped to a level in their documentation. Propose that we continue 
   documenting our standards and include the levels there.   
   ML: Agrees with proposal.   
   KS: I see issue 2 as a separate issue of classifying what the contents mean in a file. What I was wondering is how
   do you get to each of those files, and referencing it back to a NASA or satellite data levels. I think DAWG is also 
   looking for some guidance on what processing is required for each standard. We can discuss as chairs or within the WG.   
   MD: Agree we can discuss before we make a recommendation to the PIs on how best to document this information, whether it's 
   just a link to RST documentation or an external document referenced from the PI agreement.   
   EB: We have already started documenting some of this in RST; Marina has taken the lead on documenting all of the fields
   in fitacf and now grid files within RST. Not sure if this should be just in RST or somewhere more central. I think we are 
   doing the hardest part now by creating it and if we need to move it to be more central then that's OK.   

   **NEXT STEPS: DSWG with input from DAWG chairs KS and EB should discuss the best way to document standards to include
   not only fields within the file (both required and optional) but also the data level that corresponds to the standard, and
   the processing required to create the data format. Make a recommendation to the PIs with documentation to be referenced 
   from a governing document (PI agreement) and maintained within this WG.** 

 *- processes: should the PIs have greater involvement during the report writing process? (Aurelie Marchaudon)*

   AM: If you only suggest one solution in the report, perhaps this will not be easily implemented by the PIs because of other technical issues
   that the group is unaware of. I'm wondering if it's not too much more work, that multiple solutions be suggested so that
   there is not a lot of work for little results. I'm wondering if halfway through the process we could have some feedback
   with the PIs to be sure it's OK at that point. It may be difficult to implement.   
   MD: I agree that writing the report may be a lot of work but it allows us to have the conversation so that community members' ideas are
   heard. My concern would be that going back and forth between PIs and the WG might add more time especially since the 
   PIs don't meet as regularly as this WG might.  
   SS: I think some feedback should be involved from the PIs. Some issues require urgency and what if you send the report with 
   recommendations and the PIs say no, is there more time spent?   
   ML: I agree with the concerns; you may also do a lot of work on lower priority issues if the PIs have no method
   of communicating and assessing the priority of issues so the prioritization method should have the input of the PIs at the 
   outset.  
   MD: The process was devised to reduce the amount of PIs time in the intermediate stages, because the PIs are very busy, but
   we could build in input from the PIs at the decision to pursue stage, would that suffice?  
   SS: Agreed the PIs should meet more regularly and we should be aware of the issues and the potential solutions being explored. 
   There could be additional information not be considered.   
   MD: I'm open to that but would suggest that the PIs not squash solutions before the analysis is done and the advantages 
   and disadvantages are explored.   
   ML: I think the decision to pursue stage is the time to get PI feedback on this, and give a clear reason at that time as to
   why you have decided to look into the issue.   
   MD: I can build into the process an input method from the PIs at the decision to pursue stage where priorities are listed and 
   the PIs can confirm/reject/revise. We can also add an expected time frame of when the report would be submitted.  
   KM: In addition, I'm hoping to bring a workplan to the PIs on Friday to get some regularly scheduled communication between the
   WGs and the PIs about 4 times a year which would also offer a parallel process to provide regular updates, which would 
   allow an opportunity for PIs to review the work being done and the WGs to ask for input.   
   BB: Agree that all WGs should have feedback on the use of their time towards issues.  
   MD: Would like to see timely and definitive feedback. To speak to having multiple recommendations at the end, we have not yet
   gone through this process with the voting on a recommendation but we could all vote using a ranking and list a ranking 
   at the recommendation stage.   
   KM: Would like to improve communications going forward.  
   AM: Agree WG leaders and PIs should have more communication and could also meet directly. Some issues can have direction provided
   by PIs.   

   **NEXT STEPS: MD modify processes to include PI feedback on priorities at the decision to pursue stage, include issue
   justification, and gather PI solutions at that time.** 

## 2. Current Submitted Issues: see [here](https://github.com/SuperDARN/dswg-published-docs/issues)

Radar Operating System Metadata, RAWACF Standard Details, RAWACF Distribution File Naming
Recommendation reports currently being written.

Reviewed priorities. Discussed targeted emails being sent to the PIs quarterly as also discussed in the DAWG meeting. 

## 3. New Submissions and Priorities? Open for Discussion.

KM: Would like to get some ideas from the group on specifying default options for processing, and then distributing higher level data 
formats (for example, maps) created using those default processing options. How would we select default map options?   
MD: We are keeping this in mind while we work on [issue #2](https://github.com/SuperDARN/dswg-published-docs/issues/2), and I think
this will be an extension of that.  
SS: I think the user must select the options.  
KM: If SuperDARN wanted to provide higher level formats for external users to look at if they wish, what would we select to distribute?  
AM: Lots of users are not SuperDARN-specific and do not know the options that are necessary so must speak to PIs to determine
how to process maps. The idea is to enhance the community using our data by having default maps available. Our data are difficult 
to use for people outside the community.   
SS: Don't think we will ever agree on defaults.   
KM: I don't want to be responsible for creating specific maps for users. The global convection maps are our whole reason for being
and when we don't have a published map dataset it doesn't look good to funders. I hope that the data standards issue process will 
help us move this forward. Right now we have default options for creating maps. Most people who download RST create the maps without
understanding the defaults. If we can create a set of maps with well described documentation and metadata that would be good.   
KS: I think it warrants raising another issue that algorithms need to be defined for data standards and levels in some way.  
ET: There are existing routines that exist in RST that can easily be used to produce plain text formatted output of the contents 
of a map file. May not solve all issues but they are available but could be more widely used and made known.  

AC: I think that a format geolocated velocity data would be widely usable and don't think it's necessary to make people run the software
before they can use our data.   
KM: This is related to the suggestion for a user-friendly data format, something clear and obvious for a non-specialist.   
AC: It seems fitacf is not quite there and map is too far gone if you're just looking for geolocated line of sight velocity. A 
well-documented format where each file contains the explanation would work. For anyone who misuses the data at that point we 
could just point out that they didn't use the instructions or misused the format. I have a format that I could send around to
everyone that could be used as a new format in the community.  

ET: Want to thank everyone who responded to the survey with information on their radar's hardware. There are a few groups yet to submit.
Our goal is to make this information available within the community so that we know the capabilities of each radar.   

KM: Wondering if there is any way you would consider discussing issues before they are well-defined.   
MD: I think that we would like to stick with the process as written; allowing the users who want to see the change or see the 
issue as it exists to raise the issue themselves improves the communication about it as opposed to me or the WG attempting to discuss 
or define it when we may not be as well informed.   
KM: My concern would be that the process gets too far ahead without PI involvement but I think the changes to consult with the PIs at 
the decision to pursue stage will address that concern.  

Some further discussion ensued on the file naming issue. SuperDARN Canada offers to provide access to Borealis-produced data
to whoever wishes to use it on a separate globus directory in the interim while the DSWG's recommendation process occurs up until
a decision is made on naming.  

Thanks all for a great meeting.  
